 When Mr and Mrs Dursley woke up on the dull, grey
Tuesday our story starts, there was nothing about the cloudy
sky outside to suggest that strange and mysterious things
would soon be happening all over the country. Mr Dursley
hummed as he picked out his most boring tie for work and
Mrs Dursley gossiped away happily as she wrestled a screaming
Dudley into his high chair.
 None of them noticed a large tawny owl fl utter past the
window.
 At half past eight, Mr Dursley picked up his briefcase,
pecked Mrs Dursley on the cheek and tried to kiss Dudley
goodbye but missed, because Dudley was now having a
tantrum and throwing his cereal at the walls. ‘Little tyke,’
chortled Mr Dursley as he left the house. He got into his car
and backed out of number four’s drive.
 It was on the corner of the street that he noticed the fi rst
sign of something peculiar – a cat reading a map. For a second,
Mr Dursley didn’t realise what he had seen – then he jerked
his head around to look again. There was a tabby cat standing 
on the corner of Privet Drive, but there wasn’t a map in sight.
What could he have been thinking of? It must have been a
trick of the light. Mr Dursley blinked and stared at the cat. It
stared back. As Mr Dursley drove around the corner and up
the road, he watched the cat in his mirror. It was now reading
the sign that said Privet Drive – no, looking at the sign; cats
couldn’t read maps or signs. Mr Dursley gave himself a little
shake and put the cat out of his mind. As he drove towards
town he thought of nothing except a large order of drills he
was hoping to get that day.
 But on the edge of town, drills were driven out of his mind
by something else. As he sat in the usual morning traffi c jam, he
couldn’t help noticing that there seemed to be a lot of strangely
dressed people about. People in cloaks. Mr Dursley couldn’t
bear people who dressed in funny clothes – the get- ups you saw
on young people! He supposed this was some stupid new
fashion. He drummed his fi ngers on the steering wheel and his
eyes fell on a huddle of these weirdos standing quite close by.
They were whispering excitedly together. Mr Dursley was
enraged to see that a couple of them weren’t young at all; why,
that man had to be older than he was, and wearing an emeraldgreen
 cloak! The nerve of him! But then it struck Mr Dursley
that this was probably some silly stunt – these people were
obviously collecting for something … yes, that would be it.
The traffi c moved on, and a few minutes later, Mr Dursley
arrived in the Grunnings car park, his mind back on drills.
 Mr Dursley always sat with his back to the window in his
offi ce on the ninth fl oor. If he hadn’t, he might have found it
